i'm going to talk about the
the dag jose project which is uh
something i've been working on for the
past couple of weeks
um i've been funded by uh
protocol agent ethereum and been working
with the folks at uh textile and three
books to get this done
so um dag jose stands for what dag as in
ipld and then jose is json object
signing and encryption so
it's a hard j but everyone seems to say
jose so that's
that's how i pronounce it um so
what what is diagnosis what's the
problem it's trying to solve i'm gonna
introduce that
and then i'm gonna talk a little bit
about how we
solve that problem and then specifically
about the go api and then if we have
time i'll talk about the implementation
and go so
some of this will be quite technical uh
i hope it's still interesting
um so the way i see it ipld
and ipfs more generally are about data
interoperability
and one of the problems that we run into
with public data so the ipfs network is
generally public
is that we want to sign or encrypt data
and at the moment every application ends
up writing their own
little mini format to describe how the
data was
authenticated or encrypted and that
reduces the interoperability of it it
makes it harder to write code that's
generic over
how something was authenticated or
encrypted
so diagrams say is an attempt to solve
that problem
it's an interoperability standard for
for authenticated encrypted data
um jose itself is actually an existing
standard for
authenticated and encrypted data on the
web um
it's basically a standard json
representation for uh authentication
encryption
um and there's two generally speaking
two objects that we care about json web
signatures or jws
and json web encryption which is jwe um
web developers will often actually
encounter these in the form of json web
tokens which are a form of jws used for
authenticating against
web apis so there's an existing
ecosystem of
libraries that handle these things so
the idea is just to take this
and use it in iplp given that there's
already an existing ecosystem there's a
lot of standards around it there's a lot
of familiarity with it
so what do these objects look like this
is what a jws looks like
so you have some kind of payload which
is
arbitrary binary data that you're
signing
and then a series of signatures which
are signatures over that data
and the elements of these signatures
so you've got the signature itself which
is just a device to the signature
and then you have some uh elements the
header
and protected header which effectively
represent metadata about that signature
which implementations can use to
figure out how the signature was made
and to verify it
um so that's that's authenticated data
and then for encrypted data
very similarly um you have a set of
defined keys and then
you have the key part of this is the
ciphertext which is
the uh whatever encrypted data you have
and then recipients is a series of uh
specific to each recipient data which
can be used
to decrypt the data so in both cases
the the details of the actual shape of
these objects is not necessarily that
important for this talk
the main thing is that there is a
standard format for how these objects
are laid out
um and it has to will be url safe json
so everything is base64 url encoded
um and these are generally pretty well
supported
there's also um different serializations
of these so these two
forms here are called the general
serialization there's a flat and
serialization
where you can uh if you only have one
recipient
here for example or if you only have one
signature
in a jws you can hoist the keys of the
signature of the recipient now into the
top level
and then there's a compact serialization
which is designed for use in urls
but uh we don't particularly care about
those we can encode the general
serialization fairly efficiently because
we're using cbor instead of json
um and we can losslessly convert to and
from in the
library so we just use the general
civilization
um so i guess the the first question
here is how
do we actually represent these jose
objects in ipld um
and this is there's a spec for this uh
that's the link i've just posted there
but um it's fairly straightforward
really we have a multi-codec
which indicates that a cid refers to
some jose data
um and then to actually encode a jose
object either jws or jwe
into into iprd we uh we just
encode it in siebel rather than json and
because we have a byte type
in cbor we directly use that rather than
base64 url encoding
any payload data and then we add these
two extra requirements which i'll talk
about a little bit in a minute which is
that
if it's a jws the payload is the bytes
of a cid
uh and if it's a jwe the ciphertext is
decrypts the bytes of the cid uh which
seems like an odd requirement and i'll
get back to it but just to make that
concrete
if we're to look at uh this jws
to encode this uh in iprb we encode it
in cbor everywhere you see base64 url
you can basically
replace that bytes
so why are we using cids for the payload
and ciphertext
so one of the things that almost any
spec
that deals with encryption or
authentication will do is define some
kind of canonical way of encoding
uh json or whatever your data structure
is
so that verifiers can reproduce it
in the same way as the signer so that
they can
they can verify the data structure and
this is quite complicated
um but we can kind of avoid doing that
because we already have ipld
as a way of encoding arbitrary data so
we just use that
um and also applications if they're
using this
this data they already have ipod
infrastructure for deserializing and
serializing
into ipod data so they can just reuse
that
so by saying you have to sign a cid or
you have to encrypt a cid
we don't we don't have to worry about
specifying how you structure your data
um the obvious objection to this well
there's two
one is say you're say you're downloading
in jws
uh you would have to get the jws object
from airpfs
and then you have to like decode the cid
of the payload and then do another
network request to get that object
um or probably even more concerning is
if you have it
an encrypted object if you're if this
plain text
is a cid then that seems like it would
mean that you're putting the
the plain text on the network somewhere
and all your encrypting is
is the hash of it um
but we can use the identity multicast to
avoid this problem so what that means is
um if you have a cid which uses the
identity multi-hash
then what that means is that the bytes
of
the object that the cid refers to are
actually
we don't hash them at all we just
directly include the bytes in the cid
um so that means that we can we can
create an identity multi-hash for our
jws or jwe
and include that directly in the object
that's downloaded
and that means that we in the blog and
that means that we don't have to make
these extra network requests and it
means we don't have to put the plain
text to the jw
e on the network um so that's kind of
an overview of of how we of what the
spec says about how we encode this work
what i've been working on is ago
implementation of this
so you can be found on this link and i
think there's also a link in chat yep
um all this library handles is
serialization to and from json
and to and from ipld there are other
libraries which are really quite mature
which can be handled
can be used to handle crypto um so the
main thing this is just concerned with
is just
a very simple api to convert to and from
json ipod
so here's what reading a jws looks like
so we create a cid this is using the go
ipod
prime library which is a i think
reasonably new library for interacting
with ipld data
in go um so we created cid
um we assume that there's already some
data
on the network that the cid points to
that is uh
a dag has a jws object um
and then the interesting piece of code i
guess the entry point of this library
in the middle of the page right there
you see this diagram.load has a
function so the first argument to that
is the cid that we just created
uh the two context arguments are not
particularly interesting for this
uh and then the the fourth argument is
uh an implementation of it.loader which
basically is anything that knows how to
get data from ipfs
um and this is uh this is something that
anyone using the ipl prime
library would already have on hand
um so the result we get from that
function
is a is a union of both jws and jw
objects because the
the spec doesn't determine doesn't tell
us what kind of object is in
in the cid we know that it's either a
jws or jwe
so we then have this as jws method which
will return
not nil if the the object is a jdbs and
if
if it isn't jws there's another one
called as jwe and then at the bottom
we can see here we're just printing out
the general json serialization
of the jws so that's where your
integration point with a third-party
library would sit so
you can you can then pass that general
serialization and go jose or you can
pass it yourself or hand it off to any
other third-party services
that can handle jws objects um
and writing looks broadly similar um
you say you've you've signed some data
using the go jose library for example
and you have you then have the general
json serialization of that
jws you can pass that using diapers a so
that first
line is the entry point here um
and then this uh on the fifth line we've
got this dice build jose link
method which is um effectively
a wrapper around go ipod prime to link
builder
um again the important part is the last
two arguments
the first one is we upcast our jws to a
jose object
for the same reason as we have to
downcast um and when we give it an
implementation of something that knows
how to store raw ipfs blob data
on the network um and the result of that
is uh
is a cid uh which we can we can do
whatever we want with
so that's the api of the library that
i've been working on it's
fairly simple um there is a helper
library i'm working on
which it handles things like um
encoding things in an identity multihash
um
and various utility functions to do with
encryption decryption that just makes
the user experience a bit easier
um and i was hoping to get onto the some
implementation details but
it's coming up to quarter two so i think
i'll probably stop there
um although for the last week of this i
guess something that's
kind of fun and exciting i'm working on
is uh
is sort of tying everything together and
making sure that we can
store jose objects um using
powergate via ceramic which is a
project three books are working on that
is actually using the stuff in anger via
the javascript implementation